

### The Internet

The Internet is a transport mechanism that lets any connected device communicate with any other connected device. 
Behind the scenes:
- Each device has a globally distinct IP address, which is a 32 bit number. Usually an IP address is represented as a sequence of four decimal numbers, each number in the range (0, 255). When I take my laptop home and connect to a network somewhere else, my laptop gets a different IP address that it uses there.
- Data is chopped up into reasonable sized packets (up to 65,535 bytes, but usually much smaller).
- Each data packet has a header that includes the destination IP address.
- Each packet is routed independently, getting passed on from one computing device to another until it reaches its destination. The computing devices that do that packet forwarding are called routers. Each router keeps an address table that says, when it gets a packet for some destination address, which of its neighbors should it pass the packet on to. The routers are constantly talking to each other passing information about how they should update their routing tables. The system was designed to be resistant to any local damage. If some of the routers stop working, the rest of the routers talk to each other and start routing packets around in a different way so that packets still reach their intended destination if there is some path to get there.
- At the destination, the packets are reassembled into the original data message.


### URLs, Domain Names, and IP Addresses

http://mongo.com/about
{protocol}://{server}/{arguments}

- server: where to fetch something from
- about: what to fetch from that remote server
- protocol: how to communicate with that remote server

Host (server) name: e.g., www.yorku.ca/math
IP address (internet protocol address): not two computers connected to the internet have the same IP address at the same time.
But IP address can be used by another computer once the first one disconnects from the internet.
A domain name is more permanent. But the actual server behind the domain may change its IP over time. 
There is a map between domain names and IP addresses: distributed lookup system. www.whatsmyip.org/whois-dns-lookup


### Routing

How data gets from one computer to another. Packages of data are sent through routers.


### HTTP protocol

1. Convert domain to IP address
2. Connect to the IP address (if it's "S", as in HTTPS, for secured, in first exchanges encryption keys). GET request like get math
3. Start sending information (e.g., browser, time, date)
4. The domain will in turn send data


### URL Query Parameters

https://events.umich.edu/list?filter=tags:Art,&range=2018-10-01
protocol         Host        ?    Arguments   
The character question mark indicates that what follows are the query parameters
The arguments have format: key=value
filter=tags:Art
range=2018-10-01


### REST API URLs

https://itunes.apple.com/search?term=Ann+Arbor&entity=podcast
	- base URL
	- ? character
	- one or more key-value pairs formatted as key=value, and separater by the & character

https://www.google.com/search?q=%22violins+and+guitars%22&tbm=isch
	- Search on Google for images for the string "violins and guitars"
	- It's not actually based on a REST API, because the contents that come back are meant to be displayed in a browser. 
		- Base URL https://www.google.com/search
		- ? character
		- Two key=value parameters, separated by &
			- q=%22violins+and+guitars%22 means the query to search for is "violins and guitars".
			- tbm=isch means to go to the tab for image search
			- Some characters are not safe to include in URLs. 
				- A URL path is not allowed to include the double-quote character, or ":", "/" or a space. 
				- So special encodings are required. A space is encoded as +. And " is encoded as %22, while : is encoded as %3A
				- So %22violins+and+guitars%22 is the encoding for "violins and guitars"
		


REST stands for REpresentational State Transfer. It's a shorthand name for web sites that take inputs values for certain parameters and produce outputs in the form of a long text string.

API stands for Application Programming Interface. An API specifies how an external program (an application program) can request that a program perform certain computations.

A REST API specifies how external programs can make HTTP requests to a web site in order to request that some computation be carried out and data returned as output. When a website is designed to accept requests generated by other computer programs, and produce outputs to be consumed by other programs, it is sometimes called a web service, as opposed to a web site which produces output meant for humans to consume in a web browser.

When you put a URL into a browser, you see the content of a page. The browser is a computer program that fetches the contents and displays them in a nice way. But one does not need a browser to fetch the contents of a page. In Python, there is a module called requests, which function get fetches contents of a page.